# MobileArchitectureDevelopment
Final Project 
The goal of my weight tracking app was to create a simple and accessible tool for tracking daily nutrition and progress without overwhelming the user. The app was designed to meet the needs of individuals looking to monitor their caloric intake, log meals, and view summaries of the progress over time. The core user need it addressed was accountability, which helped users to visualize the connection between consistency and results through an intuitive interface. The app included three main screens, a login screen, a dashboard for tracking meals, and a progress history screen. Each layout was designed with minimal design preferences and consistent color usage to reduce the load on the end user. I focused on usability by maintaining predictable navigation and clear input fields. The design kept users in mind by prioritizing readability and accessibility, both of which are essential to user longevity. In coding the app, I prioritized modularity and reusability. I broke functionality into fragments to handle UI sections in a compartmentalized fashion. This ensures smoother lifecycle management and easier debugging. I used test CI/CD and utilized an iterative approach. I also made sure UI components and logic layers of the application were separated, which opens the door to possibilities of future scalability or application of concepts in another application. I tested the app using Android Studio's emulator and manual input validation ensure field responses were appropriate, navigation flow was seamless, and error handling was immediate. I still ended up with some compiling issues, but this was critical to reaching this stage of development. The most significant challenge came from handling the data model, and I ended up using a lightweight local model to ensure fast loading speeds for the end user. This reinforced how important it is to match the technical approach with the apps scope rather than add a laundry list of features that might draw out development time. One specifically strong component of my app that demonstrated my knowledge, skills, and experience would be the screen to screen navigation, which I was able to thumb through in the emulator but had trouble replicating outside of. Definitely something I'm interested in perfecting.
